[CUBRIDQA-874] add SQL test guide (#551)
CUBRID/cubrid-testtools: doc/sql_guide.md

# Test Objective

> Structured Query Language (SQL), SQL is an ANSI (American National Standards Institute) standard computer language. Its functions include data query, data manipulation, data definition and data control. It is a general relational database language with strong functions. It is now the standard language for relational databases. (such as SELECT, UPDATE, DELETE, INSERT, WHERE and etc)   

Reviewer: Replace with:

SQL is basic but important feature of one RDBMS product. CUBRID as  a comprehensive relational database management system supports not only standard SQL but also native extension.
In order to test SQL feature, we designed two suites SQL and MEDIUM which include all kinds of DDL, DML and so on.
Typically, SQL and MEDIUM perform tests via JDBC interface on both Linux and Windows platform as regression test.  And we also introduce SQL_BY_CCI suite which execute SQL test cases via CCI interface. In this guide, I would introduce SQL, MEDIUM and SQL_BY_CCI tests.

CUBRID SQL test, SQL detection for each build to detect the basic functions of the database and ensure the correct output of commands.
  
# General SQL Test  
## Test deployment  

> * Install CTP: [CTP_install_guide](https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/develop/doc/ctp_install_guide.md)  

Reviewer: Change to:

Install CTP
Please follow guides to [install CTP on Linux platform](https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/develop/doc/ctp_install_guide.md#1-install-ctp-in-linux-platform) or [install CTP on Windows platform](...).

>     * sql test  

Reviewer: Check whole guide and change naming rule as:
1. `SQL` , `MEDIUM`, `SQL_BY_CCI` (with fully upper case) as standard.
https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/develop/CTP/README.md aleady kept same rule.

2.  `CTP` as standard name.

>     touch ~/CTP/conf/sql_local.conf    

Reviewer: As is:
'touch ~/CTP/conf/sql_local.conf' 

To be:
Prepare test configuration file ~/CTP/conf/sql.conf

Note: do not use sql_local.conf as file name. Just adopt sql.conf

		  ha_mode=yes
		  # To reduce memory use
		  ha_apply_max_mem_size=300
		  # To set what port will be used for ha_port_id
		  ha_port_id=12859

		  # SQL cubrid_broker.conf query editor section - a section to change parameters under query_editor
		  [sql/cubrid_broker.conf/%query_editor]
		  # To close one service to avoid port conflict and reduce configuration complexity
		  SERVICE=OFF

		  # SQL cubrid_broker.conf broker1 section - a section to change parameters under broker1
		  [sql/cubrid_broker.conf/%BROKER1]
		  # To change broker port to avoid port conflict, if you are sure the port will not conflict, just ignore.
		  BROKER_PORT=33285
		  # To change ID of shared memory used by CAS, if you are sure the port will not conflict, just ignore.
		  APPL_SERVER_SHM_ID=33285

		  # SQL cubrid_broker.conf broker section - a section to configure parameters under broker section
		  [sql/cubrid_broker.conf/broker]
		  # To change the identifier of shared memory to avoid conflict to cause server start fail
		  MASTER_SHM_ID=32851
		```
	* sql_by_cci test  
    touch and configure ~/CTP/conf/sql_by_cci_template.conf  

> 	Add cci configuration "sql_interface_type=cci" to sql_local.conf

Reviewer: Point out where to add (section)?

    * Windows test  
    touch and configure ~/CTP/conf/sql_local.conf   
	Modify configuration "jdbc_config_file=test_default.xml" to "jdbc_config_file = test_win.xml","ha_mode=no" to "ha_mode=yes" in sql_local.conf 
* configure ~/.bash_profile
    ```
    export TZ='Asia/Seoul'
	export LC_ALL=en_US
    ```
    source ~/.bash_profile
* Install CUBRID  

> On Windows systems,use the msi installation file to install cubrid for the first time.  

Reviewer: First introduce Linux, then Windows.

* Check out test cases  
    ```
    cd ~  
    git clone https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testcases.git 
    ```

## Executed Test

> ### ctp  

Reviewer: Please follow:

### Execute each test suite via CTP
balabala.

### Execute with interactive mode via CTP
balabala.

      run ./_001_primary_key/_002_uniq                      #run the cases which are based on the relative path
      run test.sql                                          #run the test.sql file
      run /home/user1/dailyqa/trunk/scenario/sql/_02_object #run the cases which are based on the absolute path
      run_cci ./_001_primary_key/_002_uniq                  #run the cases which are based on the relative path
      run_cci ./_001_primary_key/_002_uniq/test.sql         #run the cases file
  sql>run .
  ```

  ![run_test](./sql_image/ctp_run_test.png)  

  You can view the results on the web page:
  ```
    $ ctp.sh webconsole start
    Config: /home/sql1/CTP/conf/webconsole.conf
    Web Root: /home/sql1/CTP/sql/webconsole
    Begin to start 

    Done
    URL:  http://192.168.1.76:7777
  ```
  
  ![ctp_web_result](./sql_image/ctp_web_result.png)  

### csql  
* sql test
   * cubrid createdb testdb en_US  
   * cubrid server start testdb
   * csql -u dba testdb  
  ![run_test](./sql_image/csql_run_test.png)  
   
* medium test
   * cubrid createdb testdb en_US  
   * cubrid loaddb -u dba -d mdb_objects -s mdb_schema -i mdb_indexes  testdb

>      It‘s difference between sql and medium,  there is a unload file cubrid-testcases/medium/files/mdb.tar.gz that is used to medium test.(The files mdb_indexes,mdb_schema and mdb_objects are in the mdb.tar.gz archive)

Reviewer: Let's keep the detail for medium. Merge into "Check out test cases".

  ```
  cd ~/
  git clone https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testcases.git 
  cd cubrid-testcases
  git checkout develop  
  ```
* Step 5: Run test
  ```
  ctp.sh sql -c ~/CTP/conf/sql.conf
  ```
* Step 6: Examine test result
  * When the test is completed, CTP will print the summary result message, please see the example of SQL result for reference
	```
	-----------------------
	Fail:0
	Success:1
	Total:1
	Elapse Time:193
	Test Result Directory:/home/user/CTP/sql/result/y2016/m3schedule_linux_sql_64bit_24202122_10.0.0_1376
	Test Log:/home/user/CTP/sql/log/sql_10.0.0.1376_1458818452.log
	-----------------------

	-----------------------
	Testing End!
	-----------------------
	```
  * Alternatively, you can use the webconsole of CTP to check results(the current webconsole feature only support SQL and MEDIUM)  
    ```
    $ bin/ctp.sh webconsole start
    Config: /home/user/CTP/conf/webconsole.conf
    Web Root: /home/user/CTP/sql/webconsole
    Begin to start ...
        
    Done
    URL:  http://127.0.0.1:8888
    ```  
    Please open the ``URL`` with your browser to see the details  
    ![ctp_web_result](./sql_image/ctp_web_result.png)  
## 2.2 MEDIUM Test 

>   MEDIUM test is same as [SQL test](#21-sql-test) except that MEDIUM database is loaded from a backuped files.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  MEDIUM test is similar to [SQL test](#21-sql-test) except that MEDIUM database is loaded from a backuped files.  
```

  Let's prepare MEDIUM config file ~/CTP/conf/medium.conf which copy from SQL config file.   
  ```
  cp ~/CTP/conf/sql.conf ~/CTP/conf/medium.conf  
  ```
  Then change parameters as below:  
  ```
  [sql] 

>   scenario=https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testcases/tree/develop/medium

Reviewer: 1. Bad value for scenario.
2. Change to:

```
[sql] 
...
scenario=${HOME}/cubrid-testcases/medium
data_file=${HOME}/cubrid-testcases/medium/files/mdb.tar.gz
...
```

  data_file=${HOME}/cubrid-testcases/medium/files/mdb.tar.gz
  ```

  Then start MEDIUM test:
  ```
  ctp.sh sql -c ~/CTP/conf/medium.conf
  ```
  Other steps are same as SQL test.
## 2.3 SQL_BY_CCI Test  

>   SQL_BY_CCI test is same as [SQL test](#21-sql-test). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  SQL_BY_CCI test is similar to [SQL test](#21-sql-test). 
```

  ```
  cp ~/CTP/conf/sql.conf ~/CTP/conf/sql_by_cci.conf  
  ```
  Then change file sql_by_cci.conf:  
  ```
  [sql]

>   sql_interface_type=cci

Reviewer: Change to:
```
  [sql]
  ...
  sql_interface_type=cci
  ...
```

  ```

  Then start SQL_BY_CCI test:
  ```
  ctp.sh sql -c ~/CTP/conf/sql_by_cci.conf

>   ```

Reviewer: How to examine sql_by_cci test result?

> ## 2.4 Windows Test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2.4 SQL and MEDIUM tests on Windows platform
```

>   Windows test is same as [SQL test](#21-sql-test).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Windows test is similar to [SQL test](#21-sql-test).  
```

  Change parameters as below: 
  ```

>   [sql]

Reviewer: Add necessory `...`.

  With this option, we may execute one sql file or a batch of sql files in a folder.
  ```
  ctp.sh sql -c CTP/conf/sql.conf --interactive
  ```
  ```
  ======================================  Welcome to Interactive Mode ======================================  
  Usage: 
      help         print the usage of interactive
      run <arg>    the path of case file to run
      run_cci <arg>    the path of case file to run_cci by cci driver
      quit         quit interactive mode 

  For example:
      run .                                                 #run the current directory cases
      run ./_001_primary_key/_002_uniq                      #run the cases which are based on the relative path
      run test.sql                                          #run the test.sql file
      run /home/user1/dailyqa/trunk/scenario/sql/_02_object #run the cases which are based on the absolute path
      run_cci ./_001_primary_key/_002_uniq                  #run the cases which are based on the relative path
      run_cci ./_001_primary_key/_002_uniq/test.sql         #run the cases file
  sql>run .
  ```

  ![run_test](./sql_image/ctp_run_test.png)  

> 

Reviewer: Tell to user that webconsole can be used.

    
# 3. Regression Test Deployment  
* Test Machines  

    No|role|user|ip|hostname|QUEUE_NAME|run_name
    :---:|:--:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:
    1|Test node|sql1|192.168.1.76|func01|QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT|run_sql
    2|Test node|sql2|192.168.1.76|func01|QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT|run_sql
    3|Test node|sql3|192.168.1.76|func01|QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT|run_sql
    4|Test node|sqlbycci|192.168.1.76|func01|QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_CCI_LINUX_GIT|run_sql_by_cci
    5|Test node|sql|192.168.1.77|func02|QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_PERF_LINUX|run_sql
    6|Test node|qa|192.168.1.161|winfunc01|QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_WIN64|run_sql  

> * Install reference [CTP_install_guide](https://github.com/Zhaojia2019/cubrid-testtools/blob/guide/doc/ctp_install_guide.md#3-install-ctp-as-regression-test-platform) 

Reviewer: Correct the link address.

      run_cci ./_001_primary_key/_002_uniq                  #run the cases which are based on the relative path
      run_cci ./_001_primary_key/_002_uniq/test.sql         #run the cases file
  sql>run .
  ```

  ![run_test](./sql_image/ctp_run_test.png)  

  Alternatively, you can use the webconsole of CTP to check results.
    
# 3. Regression Test Deployment  
## 3.1 Deployment overview    
  No|role|user|ip|hostname|QUEUE_NAME|run_name
  :---:|:--:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:
  1|Test node|sql1|192.168.1.76|func01|QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT|run_sql
  2|Test node|sql2|192.168.1.76|func01|QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT|run_sql
  3|Test node|sql3|192.168.1.76|func01|QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT|run_sql
  4|Test node|sqlbycci|192.168.1.76|func01|QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_CCI_LINUX_GIT|run_sql_by_cci
  5|Test node|sql|192.168.1.77|func02|QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_PERF_LINUX|run_sql
  6|Test node|qa|192.168.1.161|winfunc01|QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_WIN64|run_sql 
## 3.2 Installation 
* Install reference [CTP_install_guide](https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/develop/doc/ctp_install_guide.md#3-install-ctp-as-regression-test-platform) 

> * Check out test cases

Reviewer: You forget to add step "Configure tests" as I reviewed.

  ```
  cd ~/
  git clone https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testcases.git  
  ```
* Modify .bash_profile
  ```
  export CTP_HOME=$HOME/CTP
  export CTP_SKIP_UPDATE=0
  export CTP_BRANCH_NAME=develop
  . ~/.cubrid.sh
  export PATH=$HOME/CTP/bin:$HOME/CTP/common/script:$PATH:$HOME/.local/bin:$PATH:$HOME/bin

  export TZ='Asia/Seoul'
  export LC_ALL=en_US
  ```
* Add quick start script file    
  * Linux Queue configure 
    touch start_test.sh  
    ```
    stop_consumer.sh 
    prefix=`date "+%Y%m%d%H%M%S"`
    cp nohup.out nohup.out.$prefix
    echo "" > nohup.out
    nohup start_consumer.sh -q [QUEUE_NAME] -exec [run_name] &
    ```       
  * Windows Queue configure   
      touch start_test.sh
      ```
      rm nohup.out
      nohup start_consumer.sh -q [QUEUE_NAME] -exec [run_name] &
      ```
  * sh start_test.sh  

* send test message  
  login message@192.168.1.91 and send test message like:  
  ```

>   sender.sh  [QUEUE_NAME]  [CI_BUILD] [Category] default

Reviewer: Directly show actual command one by one.
Otherwise readers can't give exact queue name and other parameters.

  
  eg: run SQL test
  sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT http://192.168.1.91:8080/REPO_ROOT/store_01/10.2.0.8369-5a75e41/drop/CUBRID-10.2.0.8369-5a75e41-Linux.x86_64-debug.sh sql_debug default  
   
# 4. Regression Test Sustaining  
* Daily regression test  
When the build server has a new build, a SQL test will be executed. If there is something wrong and need to run SQL test again, you can send a test message.   
How to view qahome results:  
Go to QA homepage and click the CI build, wait for the page loading, then click the 'Function',look at the case of Fail  
![qa_result](./sql_image/qa_result.png)

* Code coverage test  
	* VERIFY CODE COVERAGE TESTING RESULT  
	Go to QA homepage and find the ‘code coverage’ node in the left area, click the link of latest result.  
	![coverage](./sql_image/coverage.png)  
	Click the Category(SQL,MEDIUM,SQL_BY_CCI) link.   
	![category](./sql_image/category.png)  
	There is a coverage rate of lines. Its SQL and SQL_BY_CCI coverage rate of lines is usually in 58%~60%, the MEDIUM coverage rate of lines is usually in 30%~31%.  
	![coverage_result](./sql_image/coverage_result.png)

> 	* SEND CODE COVERAGE TESTING MESSAGE  

Reviewer: Needn't full upper cases.

      run_cci ./_001_primary_key/_002_uniq                  #run the cases which are based on the relative path
      run_cci ./_001_primary_key/_002_uniq/test.sql         #run the cases file
  sql>run .
  ```

  ![run_test](./sql_image/ctp_run_test.png)  

  Alternatively, you can use the webconsole of CTP to check results.
    
# 3. Regression Test Deployment  
## 3.1 Deployment overview    
  No|role|user|ip|hostname|QUEUE_NAME|run_name
  :---:|:--:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:
  1|Test node|sql1|192.168.1.76|func01|QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT|run_sql
  2|Test node|sql2|192.168.1.76|func01|QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT|run_sql
  3|Test node|sql3|192.168.1.76|func01|QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT|run_sql
  4|Test node|sqlbycci|192.168.1.76|func01|QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_CCI_LINUX_GIT|run_sql_by_cci
  5|Test node|sql|192.168.1.77|func02|QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_PERF_LINUX|run_sql
  6|Test node|qa|192.168.1.161|winfunc01|QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_WIN64|run_sql 
## 3.2 Installation 
* [Install CTP as Regression Test platform](https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/develop/doc/ctp_install_guide.md#3-install-ctp-as-regression-test-platform) 
* Configure tests
  * SQL  

>   You can refer to [SQL Test](#21-sql-test) about CTP/conf/sql.conf.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Create configuration file `CTP/conf/sql_local.conf`.  Then set same content as `CTP/conf/sql.conf` in [SQL Test](#21-sql-test).
```

And guide user how about the windows platform.

>   * MEDIUM  

Reviewer: Remove MEDIUM since SQL and MEDIUM use same sql_local.conf

  You can refer to [MEDIUM Test](#22-medium-test) about CTP/conf/medium.conf.
  * SQL_BY_CCI  

>   You can refer to [SQL_BY_CCI Test](#23-sql_by_cci-test) about CTP/conf/sql_by_cci.conf.

Reviewer: Change as SQL way.

* Check out test cases
  ```
  cd ~/
  git clone https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testcases.git  
  ```
* Modify .bash_profile
  ```
  export CTP_HOME=$HOME/CTP
  export CTP_SKIP_UPDATE=0
  export CTP_BRANCH_NAME=develop
  . ~/.cubrid.sh
  export PATH=$HOME/CTP/bin:$HOME/CTP/common/script:$PATH:$HOME/.local/bin:$PATH:$HOME/bin

  export TZ='Asia/Seoul'
  export LC_ALL=en_US
  ```
* Add quick start script file    

>   * Queue configure   

Reviewer: Remove title 'Queue configure'.

>       touch start_test.sh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Create file `~/start_test.sh` with below content:
```

      ```
      stop_consumer.sh 
      prefix=`date "+%Y%m%d%H%M%S"`
      cp nohup.out nohup.out.$prefix
      echo "" > nohup.out
      nohup start_consumer.sh -q QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT -exec run_sql &
      ``` 
  * sh start_test.sh  

> * send test message  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* send test message  
```

  login message@192.168.1.91 and send test message like:  
  ```

>   sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT [CI_BUILD] sql_debug default

Reviewer: Just example one by one for all suite tests.

    sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT <build_url> sql_debug default
    sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT <build_url> medium_debug default
    ```
  * Test message with release build on Linux
    ```
    sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_PERF_LINUX <build_url> sql default
    sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_PERF_LINUX <build_url> medium default
    sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_CCI_LINUX_GIT <build_url> sql_by_cci default
    ```
  * Test message on Windows
    ```
    sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_WIN64 <build_url> sql default
    sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_WIN64 <build_url> medium default
    ```
   _build_url_: provide a build URL like `http://192.168.1.91:8080/REPO_ROOT/store_01/10.2.0.8369-5a75e41/drop/CUBRID-10.2.0.8369-5a75e41-Linux.x86_64-debug.sh`.  
## 4.2 Verify Test Results
* Check if there is test result  
Open [QA home](http://qahome.cubrid.org), navigate to find test result as below. If there is no any result, you need to find the reason out.   

> ![qa_result](./sql_image/qa_result1.png)

Reviewer: Also circle windows results.

* Test Rate should be 100%  

> It means the Testing is equal to the sum of Success and Fail(Total).   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It means the `Testing` is equal to the sum of `Success` and `Fail` (Total).   
```

![qa_result](./sql_image/qa_result2.png)
* Verified Rate should be 100%  
The verified rate should be 100% as below.   
![qa_result](./sql_image/qa_result3.png)  
If there is a failed test case, you need to verify it following below:  
![qa_result](./sql_image/qa_result4.png)  
Note:  
New issues : It is link to a jira issue which reported by this case  
Revise required issues: It is link to a jira issue which lead to change in test case and answer  
## 4.3 Code Coverage Test 

> * Send Code Coverage Testing Message  

Reviewer: Show which server to login.

>   sh  sender_code_coverage_testing_message.sh [QUEUE_NAME]  [COVERAGE_BUILD] [Category] default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ```
  sh  sender_code_coverage_testing_message.sh <queue_name> <build_url> <build_source_url> <category>
  ```
```

eg:
    ```
    cd manual

>     sh  sender_code_coverage_testing_message.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT_test http://192.168.1.91:8080/REPO_ROOT/store_01/10.2.0.8270-c897055/drop/CUBRID-10.2.0.8270-c897055-gcov-Linux.x86_64.tar.gz http://192.168.1.91:8080/REPO_ROOT/store_01/10.2.0.8270-c897055/drop/cubrid-10.2.0.8270-c897055-gcov-src-Linux.x86_64.tar.gz  sql

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    sh  sender_code_coverage_testing_message.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT http://192.168.1.91:8080/REPO_ROOT/store_01/10.2.0.8270-c897055/drop/CUBRID-10.2.0.8270-c897055-gcov-Linux.x86_64.tar.gz http://192.168.1.91:8080/REPO_ROOT/store_01/10.2.0.8270-c897055/drop/cubrid-10.2.0.8270-c897055-gcov-src-Linux.x86_64.tar.gz  sql
```

    ```  
* Verify Code Coverage Testing Result  
	Go to QA homepage and find the ‘code coverage’ node in the left area, click the link of latest result.  
	![coverage](./sql_image/coverage.png)  

> 	Click the Category(SQL,MEDIUM,SQL_BY_CCI) link.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	Click related category (sql, medium or sql_by_cci) link.   
```

	![category](./sql_image/category.png)  

> 	There is a coverage rate of lines. Its SQL and SQL_BY_CCI coverage rate of lines is usually in 58%~60%, the MEDIUM coverage rate of lines is usually in 30%~31%.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	There is a coverage rate by line.  Acceptable code coverage rate of SQL is nearly greater than 59%. For MEDIUM, it is 31%.  
```

    ```
   _build_url_: provide a build URL like `http://192.168.1.91:8080/REPO_ROOT/store_01/10.2.0.8369-5a75e41/drop/CUBRID-10.2.0.8369-5a75e41-Linux.x86_64-debug.sh`.  
## 4.2 Verify Test Results
* Check if there is test result  
Open [QA home](http://qahome.cubrid.org), navigate to find test result as below. If there is no any result, you need to find the reason out.   
![qa_result](./sql_image/qa_result1.png)  
![qa_result](./sql_image/qa_result1_1.png)  
* Test Rate should be 100%
It means the `Testing` is equal to the sum of `Success` and `Fail` (Total).     
![qa_result](./sql_image/qa_result2.png)
* Verified Rate should be 100%  
The verified rate should be 100% as below.   
![qa_result](./sql_image/qa_result3.png)  
If there is a failed test case, you need to verify it following below:  
![qa_result](./sql_image/qa_result4.png)  
Note:  
New issues : It is link to a jira issue which reported by this case  
Revise required issues: It is link to a jira issue which lead to change in test case and answer  
## 4.3 Code Coverage Test 
* Send Code Coverage Testing Message  
  Login message@192.168.1.91 and send test message like:  

>   sh sender_code_coverage_testing_message.sh <queue_name> <build_url> <build_source_url> default  

Reviewer: Format this line with quote.

      ```
      stop_consumer.sh 
      prefix=`date "+%Y%m%d%H%M%S"`
      cp nohup.out nohup.out.$prefix
      echo "" > nohup.out
      nohup start_consumer.sh -q QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT -exec run_sql &
      ``` 
  * sh start_test.sh  

* Send test message   
  Login message@192.168.1.91 and send test message like:  
  * Test with debug build on Linux
    ```
    sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT _build_url_ sql_debug default
    sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT _build_url_ medium_debug default
    ```
  * Test message with release build on Linux
    ```
    sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_PERF_LINUX _build_url_ sql default
    sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_PERF_LINUX _build_url_ medium default
    sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_CCI_LINUX_GIT _build_url_ sql_by_cci default
    ```
  * Test message on Windows
    ```
    sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_WIN64 _build_url_ sql default
    sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_WIN64 _build_url_ medium default
    ```
   _build_url_: provide a build URL like `http://192.168.1.91:8080/REPO_ROOT/store_01/10.2.0.8369-5a75e41/drop/CUBRID-10.2.0.8369-5a75e41-Linux.x86_64-debug.sh`.  
   
   

> # 4. Regression Test Sustaining  

Reviewer: Follow these categories:

# 4. Regression Test Sustaining

## 4.1 Execute Test Manually

(move "Send test message" in https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/16ae17ea25fce2784e2067568379cdc77ca2dcdb/doc/sql_guide.md#32-installation to here)

## 4.2 Verify Test Results

(follow this style:
https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testtools/blob/develop/doc/jdbc_guide.md#52-verify-test-results)

## 4.2 Code Coverage Test
(how to send test messages? how to get results in QA homepage?, etc)

Go to QA homepage and click the CI build, wait for the page loading, then click the 'Function',look at the case of Fail  
![qa_result](./sql_image/qa_result.png)

* Code coverage test  
	* VERIFY CODE COVERAGE TESTING RESULT  
	Go to QA homepage and find the ‘code coverage’ node in the left area, click the link of latest result.  
	![coverage](./sql_image/coverage.png)  
	Click the Category(SQL,MEDIUM,SQL_BY_CCI) link.   
	![category](./sql_image/category.png)  
	There is a coverage rate of lines. Its SQL and SQL_BY_CCI coverage rate of lines is usually in 58%~60%, the MEDIUM coverage rate of lines is usually in 30%~31%.  
	![coverage_result](./sql_image/coverage_result.png)

	* Send Code Coverage Testing Message  
	sh  sender_code_coverage_testing_message.sh [QUEUE_NAME]  [COVERAGE_BUILD] [Category] default
	eg:
      ```
      cd manual
      sh  sender_code_coverage_testing_message.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT_test http://192.168.1.91:8080/REPO_ROOT/store_01/10.2.0.8270-c897055/drop/CUBRID-10.2.0.8270-c897055-gcov-Linux.x86_64.tar.gz http://192.168.1.91:8080/REPO_ROOT/store_01/10.2.0.8270-c897055/drop/cubrid-10.2.0.8270-c897055-gcov-src-Linux.x86_64.tar.gz  sql
      ```

> * Report issues  

Reviewer: Remove "Report issues". It's useless to SQL/MEDIUM/SITE tests.

* Configure tests
  * SQL and MEDIUM configuration  
  Create configuration file `CTP/conf/sql_local.conf`.  Then set same content as `CTP/conf/sql.conf` in [SQL Test](#21-sql-test).
  * SQL_BY_CCI  
  Create configuration file `CTP/conf/sql_by_cci_template.conf`.  Then set same content as `CTP/conf/sql_by_cci.conf` in [SQL_BY_CCI Test](#23-sql_by_cci-test).
* Check out test cases
  ```
  cd ~/
  git clone https://github.com/CUBRID/cubrid-testcases.git  
  ```
* Modify .bash_profile
  ```
  export CTP_HOME=$HOME/CTP
  export CTP_SKIP_UPDATE=0
  export CTP_BRANCH_NAME=develop
  . ~/.cubrid.sh
  export PATH=$HOME/CTP/bin:$HOME/CTP/common/script:$PATH:$HOME/.local/bin:$PATH:$HOME/bin

  export TZ='Asia/Seoul'
  export LC_ALL=en_US
  ```
* Add quick start script file    
  * Create file `~/start_test.sh` with below content: 
      ```
      stop_consumer.sh 
      prefix=`date "+%Y%m%d%H%M%S"`
      cp nohup.out nohup.out.$prefix
      echo "" > nohup.out
      nohup start_consumer.sh -q QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT -exec run_sql &
      ``` 
  * sh start_test.sh  

> * send test message   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Send test message   
```

>   login message@192.168.1.91 and send test message like:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Login message@192.168.1.91 and send test message like:  
```

>   * Linux Debug Test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Test with debug build on Linux
```

  ```

>   sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT [CI_BUILD] sql_debug default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT _build_url_ sql_debug default
```

And change all others like this.

  sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT [CI_BUILD] medium_debug default
  ```

>   * Linux Release Test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Test message with debug build on Linux
```

>   * Linux Release Test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Test message with release build on Linux
```

  ```
  sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_PERF_LINUX [CI_BUILD] sql default
  sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_PERF_LINUX [CI_BUILD] medium default
  sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_CCI_LINUX_GIT [CI_BUILD] sql_by_cci default
  ```

>   * Windows Test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Test message on Windows
```

  ```
  sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_WIN64 [CI_BUILD] sql default
  sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_WIN64 [CI_BUILD] medium default
  ```

>   [CI_BUILD]:Corresponds to the build installation package address  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  _build_url_: provide a build URL like `http://192.168.1.91:8080/REPO_ROOT/store_01/10.2.0.8369-5a75e41/drop/CUBRID-10.2.0.8369-5a75e41-Linux.x86_64-debug.sh`.
```

  
  eg: run SQL test
  sender.sh QUEUE_CUBRID_QA_SQL_LINUX_GIT http://192.168.1.91:8080/REPO_ROOT/store_01/10.2.0.8369-5a75e41/drop/CUBRID-10.2.0.8369-5a75e41-Linux.x86_64-debug.sh sql_debug default  
   
# 4. Regression Test Sustaining  
* Daily regression test  
When the build server has a new build, a SQL test will be executed. If there is something wrong and need to run SQL test again, you can send a test message.   

> How to view qahome results:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to get test results in QA homepage:
```
